Do you smoke?
Are you tempted to?
Maybe to fit in.
Deal with stress.
Or maybe you're just curious.
Whatever the reason, you should know what smoking can do to you.
At Romans 121, the Bible tells you to use your power of reason.
So instead of just following the crowd, be smart enough and think for yourself.
Tobacco companies spend billions of dollars trying to convince people to smoke
and many people fall for it without thinking of the consequences.
For example, smoking can ruin your health.
And even the way you look.
The Bible says to cleanse ourselves of every defilement of flesh and spirit.
But smoking does the opposite.
Smokers are more likely to die from cancer, heart attacks, and other diseases.
And you know, it doesn't just affect you.
Second-hand smoke hurts those around you.
But what about vaping?
Is it safer?
Not on your life.
After being promoted as a safe alternative to smoking,
vaping was implicated in dozens of deaths and thousands of users got very sick.
And just like smoking, you could get addicted.
Who really benefits if you take up vaping?
So what will you do if someone invites you to smoke?
Try simply saying, no thanks, I don't smoke.
If that doesn't work, try something like, I checked out the risks and it's not for me.
But what if you're already addicted?
It might feel like there's no way out.
But you can break the habit.
First, if you vape or smoke, ask for help.
If possible from someone who is successfully quit smoking.
Second, avoid people in places that feed the urge.
And one more thing, pray.
If you pray intensely for help before you give in,
you can quit with God's help.
A Bible writer said at Psalm 1829,
by God's power, I can scale a wall.
Yes, even if you struggle with addiction,
you can win the fight.
Resist the temptation to use tobacco in any form.
You'll be healthier, happier, and breathe easier,
knowing your life isn't going up in smoke.